Document air_quality triggers & conditions (#44955)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_conditions/air_quality.is_no_value.markdown

---
title: "Nitrogen monoxide value"
condition: air_quality.is_no_value
domain: air_quality
description: "Tests the nitrogen monoxide level of one or more entities."
related_conditions:
  - air_quality.is_no2_value
  - air_quality.is_n2o_value
---

> The **Nitrogen monoxide value** condition passes when a nitrogen monoxide (NO) sensor's reading meets a specific level. NO is a reactive gas that shows up mainly around vehicle exhaust and industrial activity. If you live near a busy road, rush-hour traffic pushes NO levels up noticeably. This condition lets your automation respond to that pattern, closing the garage ventilation when NO spikes during the morning commute and reopening it once readings settle down.

Reviewer: Simplify "push up" -> "raise"

```suggestion
The **Nitrogen monoxide value** condition passes when a nitrogen monoxide (NO) sensor's reading meets a specific level. NO is a reactive gas that shows up mainly around vehicle exhaust and industrial activity. If you live near a busy road, rush-hour traffic raises NO levels noticeably. This condition lets your automation respond to that pattern, closing the garage ventilation when NO spikes during the morning commute and reopening it once readings settle down.
```

### Options in YAML

YAML sometimes provides additional options for more complex use cases that are not available through the UI.

{% options_yaml %}
threshold:
  description: >
    The nitrogen monoxide level the sensor has to meet or exceed for the condition to pass. Accepts a number or a reference to an `input_number`, `number`, or `sensor` entity.
  required: true
  type: any
behavior:
  description: >
    When multiple sensors are targeted, controls how results combine. Accepts `all` or `any`.
  required: true
  type: string
  default: any
{% endoptions_yaml %}

{% include conditions/targets.md %}

{% include conditions/behavior.md %}

## Good to know

- Sensors that are unavailable (`unavailable`) or have an unknown state (`unknown`) are skipped for **Any** and fail for **All**.
- Nitrogen monoxide is closely related to nitrogen dioxide (NO2). For NO2 readings, see [Nitrogen dioxide value](/conditions/air_quality.is_no2_value/). For nitrous oxide, see [Nitrous oxide value](/conditions/air_quality.is_n2o_value/).

{% include conditions/try_it.md %}

{% include conditions/more_examples.md %}

### Automation: keep the garage sealed during the morning commute

> If you live near a busy road, rush-hour exhaust pushes outdoor NO levels up fast. This automation triggers at 7:30 AM and checks the outdoor NO reading. If the level is at or above 100 ug/m3, the garage ventilation closes so fumes stay outside. On mornings with light traffic, the ventilation stays open as usual.

Reviewer: - Simplify "push up" -> "raise"
- use μg

```suggestion
If you live near a busy road, rush-hour exhaust raises outdoor NO levels fast. This automation triggers at 7:30 AM and checks the outdoor NO reading. If the level is at or above 100 μg/m3, the garage ventilation closes so fumes stay outside. On mornings with light traffic, the ventilation stays open as usual.
```
